---
layout: post
title: "Rule f 3's"
date: 2020-03-18
---

To start with any thing specific is difficult. I like to think the rule of 3's is the basis for my own survival/preparedness and I hope in reflection you can see it as a useful tool, but what is the rule of 3's:

It takes...
<ul>
<li> 3 seconds to die of a stupid mistake - colour code.</li>
<li> 3 minutes to die of asphixiation - lack of oxygen, gas poisoning, etc.</li>
<li> 3 hours to die of exposure - hyper/hypo-thermia, heat stress/stroke,</li>
<li> 3 days to die of lack of water,</li>
<li> 3 weeks to die from starvation,</li>
<li> 3 months to die of...</li>
<li> 3 years to die of</li>
</ul>

Now when we break down any serious situation we should obviously try and prevent, resolve, and reduce in that order. As an example you might die in 3 weeks from starvation, but your more likely in the modern world by texting whilst your driving going to the shops. You can do a lot to prevent, resolve, and reduce your likelyhood of starvation but this won't mean a thing if you come off the road going 110kph whilst playing with your phone. 

Both things we can work to resolve, but which one gives you more bang for your buck... The more immediate the threat the more you should think through your descisions.

When people start thinking about survival/preparedness they are often times overwhelmed by the information avaliable, they feel disconnected with their previous existance, somethings fundamentally change. This is good, not good in a we want this to happen everyday for the rest of our existence, but good in the fact that your coming to a realisation that you can make small pracitcal solutions. You can choose to help yourself and others to have a better existence no matter what the outcome and what life throws at us.

I leave you there for now but as you come across other discussion points, ideas, and things you have read. Remember we need to work to solve the immediate whilst not forgetting the seemingly inevitable.

hp
